# 2024-09-02
I basiically went all-in on RON files to manage entities spawned in. Feels good
so far. I looked up crates that might help manage the huge orders of magnitude
of the phyiscal characteristics of the planets, but it wasn't compiling on
Windoes without extra steps for some dependency and I didn't feel like going
down that rabbit hole tonight. Let's tough it out and see what happens. We don't
really need all that much precision... `f64` should be plenty. I do worry about
things like multiplying masses (`E24` for the Sun) against the gravitational
constant (`E-22` or something). This is where Python fell short.

I'm leaning hard on LLMs (Claude Sonnet 3.5, ChatGPT 4o) to make scaffolding
here. It is very helpful, but LLMs aren't consistent in style and such, so there
is some cleanup to do. Very helpful as a "sketch" -- especially if it compiles.

Aaaaand it bit me. I'm going to keep this setup but with totally fake values to
get the main bits up and running. I should probably use
[`nyx`](https://github.com/nyx-space/nyx/tree/master/examples/04_lro_od) for
high fidelity simulations. I _don't_ need high fidelity simulations to get the
point across. I do need it if I want to make any scientific judgements.

Come on, Phil, don't overthink it!

# 2024-09-03
For some reason the timestamps are printing in UTC no matter what time scale is
native to the Epoch I'm making. This could be a bug somewhere in `lofitime`
because of chrono, or it could be a `hifitime` issue. I'll make a new baby crate
to explore this and eliminate variables from my code.

FOUND IT. The `Epoch`'s display formatter overwrites the timescale to UTC in
hifitime 3.9.0. Thankfully this is fixed in `4.0.0-alpha`.

It wasn't an easy upgrade. The new `hifitime` version broke `lofitime`, and I
ended up basically rewriting it. As usual, it feels better after the second time
around. On one hand, a waste of 3 hours dicking around with the UI; on the other
hand, a useful exercise in writing traits, crates, and general rust.
