# 2024-08-11

I restructured the repo with a workspace and set up a placeholder
`hifitime_egui` crate. I think this warrants a version tag, so I'll be tagging
the commit before this change as `0.2.0` and continue here as `0.2.1`.

After some tinkering I realized that `hifitime` does not need to be adapted to
`egui` -- it needs to be adapted to `chrono`! Egui uses `chrono` for
time-related things and that crate is widely used. It makes more sense to write
some code to adapt hifitime to chrono. This seems like an obvious translation...
maybe it already exists. 

THe [hifitime docs](https://docs.rs/hifitime) explicitly call out chrono by way
of comparing the two crates, but I don't see any results in the search for any
translations.

`lofitime` is born!

# 2024-08-12

I rounded out `lofitime` traits and even wrote tests!
[#31](https://github.com/philiplinden/spacetime/pull/31)

I'm annoyed that all my builds are marked as "failed" because they don't pass
the cargo formatter. Now is not the time for formatting! I removed this test.

I implemented the egui datepicker with hifitime Epochs and it compiles and
"works" (as in, it does not crash and the UI looks right). When I select
options in the UI, it doesn't propagate back to the Coordinate Time resource.
I'm not sure why this is the case, but it happens for _both_ options: timescale
(which does not involve lofitime) and the date picker (which uses lofitime).
I'm pretty sure lofitime isn't the problem here.

# 2024-08-24
I discovered [`Vinermy/astray`](https://github.com/Vinermy/astray) and found the
terminal UI charming. `astray` uses
[`joshka/bevy_ratatui`](https://github.com/joshka/bevy_ratatui), a Bevy wrapper
for the popular terminal UI crate [ratatui](https://ratatui.rs/).

# 2024-08-31
Another inspiration: [`victorb/dogoap`](https://github.com/victorb/dogoap)
([demo](https://victorb.github.io/dogoap/)) It's a GOAP library. Nothing too
special about it but it looks the way I want this to look with entities spawning
and moving around.

# 2024-09-02
Fresh eyes help. Some refactors today to make the code feel more "natural".

Another re-org inbound. The organization of
[`Vinermy/astray`](https://github.com/Vinermy/astray) is really resonating with
me. I'll commit things here and jump to a new minor version if it goes well.
